---
title: How to fix automatic downloads not working
description: If MConverter doesn't automatically download your converted files, here are some potential solutions. Read the instructions for the most popular browsers and operating systems here.
image: automatic_downloads_mac.jpg
image_alt: Automatic file downloads settings in Safari on Mac
date_added: 2022-03-19
date_updated: 2022-03-19
---

MConverter offers an [option](#options) to automatically download your files once they have finished converting. However, browser policies and restrictions may prevent it from working by default. In this article, we have compiled a list of solutions to fix this issue.

## How do you access MConverter?

To diagnose which solution will work for you, first we need to know how you access MConverter to convert files:

### Using the mconverter.eu website

If you use a browser to load mconverter.eu directly, proceed with the instructions for your browser below.

### Using the Android app from [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=eu.mconverter.twa) or [Galaxy Store](https://galaxy.store/mconv)

Follow the instructions below for your default browser.

To find out which is your default browser on Android, go to Settings > Apps > Default apps > Browser app. The steps may differ slightly based on the device manufacturer.

### Using the Windows app from [Microsoft Store](https://www.microsoft.com/store/productId/9N4F69HXK2LP)

Follow the instructions for Microsoft Edge.

---

## Which is your browser?

### Google Chrome

* #### Desktop (Windows, macOS, Linux, ChromeOS)

    1. Open Chrome and go to the three dots menu > Settings > Security and Privacy > Site Settings.
    2. If you see `mconverter.eu` in the **Recent activity** section, click on it.<br>Otherwise, click on **View permissions and data stored across sites** and search for `mconverter.eu`.
    3. Scroll to **Automatic downloads** and make sure it is set to **Allow**.

* #### Android

    1. Open Chrome and go to the three dots menu > Settings > Site settings – located in the **Advanced** section.
    2. Tap on **All sites** and search for `https://mconverter.eu`.
    3. Make sure **Automatic downloads** is enabled.

* #### iOS and iPadOS

    Currently, Chrome on iOS and iPadOS does not support automatic downloads. You need to accept manually each downloaded file. 

### Samsung Internet

1. Open Samsung Internet and go to the menu in the bottom right corner (three horizontal lines) > Settings.
2. Tap on **[Browsing privacy dashboard](samsunginternet://settings_privacy/)**.
3. Make sure **Block automatic downloads** is disabled.

### Microsoft Edge

* #### Desktop (Windows, macOS, Linux)

    1. Open Edge and go to the three dots menu > Settings > Downloads.
    2. Make sure **Ask me what to do with each download** is turned off.

* #### Android

    1. Open Microsoft Edge and go to the three dots menu > Settings > Privacy and security > Site permissions
    2. Tap on **All sites** and search for `https://mconverter.eu`.
    3. Make sure **Automatic downloads** is enabled.

* #### iOS and iPadOS

    Currently, Microsoft Edge on iOS and iPadOS does not support automatic downloads. You need to accept manually each downloaded file. 

### Safari

* #### Desktop (macOS)

    1. Open Safari and go to the Safari option from the top menu > Preferences > Websites > Downloads.
    2. Look for `mconverter.eu` and select **Allow** from the dropdown menu. If it's missing, select **Allow** for **When visiting other websites**.

* #### iOS and iPadOS

    Currently, Safari on iOS and iPadOS does not support automatic downloads. You need to accept manually each downloaded file.  

### Mozilla Firefox

* #### Desktop (Windows, macOS, Linux)

    1. Open Mozilla Firefox and and go to the menu on the top right corner (three horizontal lines) > Settings > General > Downloads.
    2. Make sure **Ask each time where to save a file** is turned off.

* #### Android

    Currently, Mozilla Firefox on Android does not support automatic downloads. You need to accept manually each downloaded file.  

* #### iOS and iPadOS

    Currently, Mozilla Firefox on iOS and iPadOS does not support automatic downloads. You need to accept manually each downloaded file.
